To start off this project, I primarily used OpenStreetMap and Leaflet to help me map out third places based on location, utilizing Leaflet’s interactive map code and OpenStreetMap’s extensive database. With the aid of Copilot, I started off by portioning off different categories of third spaces, what I thought to be the main 3 sections. 

In the beginning phases, when I was still learning to navigate how we were meant to do this assignment, I first started with just trying to see if I could map out two distinct things, that being Parks and Libraries- I generated a map documenting the two, and let the user locate them based off of longitude and latitude. It definitely wasn’t the most intuitive, but it helped me grasp and get a better understanding of how the mapping worked. 

Another factor I decided early on that I wanted to implement was the idea of walkability, and how that intertwines with the cultivation and abundance of third spaces. I ended up finding an API owned by Walk Score, which provides data on exactly that- how walkable an area is. They work mainly in the real-estate world, but they offered free trials for their APIs online. I tried to register to get a key, but it wasn’t allowing me to, as I needed to have a domain that matched the email address I was signing up with, as their main customers use the API for business-related affairs. I ended up emailing their customer support, explaining that I was a student and if they could make an exception. The truth is they did end up getting back to me! The only problem was that the response got lost in my email, and I didn’t end up seeing it until it was too late (a woman emailed me back saying she’d be happy to help, she just needed my domain link, but by the time I saw it, I realized she was out of the office for the holidays). This is honestly on me, for reaching out to acquire the API in mid December vs. earlier, but I will say it did force me to get somewhat creative with finding another replacement API. 

I knew by this point that I didn’t want to abandon the walkability aspect of my project, so I just got started with illustrating some slightly more detailed wireframes than I had before, making a placeholder for the walk score. For the UI, I knew I wanted a bit more baseline control over it, so I had Copilot scan the wireframes I designed, and it then created a skeleton of the website. In terms of theming, I went on to design a fun little logo of a trio of characters tio represent the website, which also helped me settle on a name “My 3rd”, as well as a color scheme for the entire site, which was especially helpful, since I knew I wanted to color-code the map pins based on the type of third space it was documenting. The three categories I settled on were “Cafes/restaurants”, “Open spaces/parks”, and “Libraries/public centers”. I again used Copilot to build out the map feature, color-matched to the key I created, and made a filter system for users to choose which places they wanted to locate. I also improved the overall navigation features, allowing for both a search feature (which would auto-populate based on what you typed), as well as a bar to input a zipcode and desired radius of miles you’d want to venture out. I also decided to link it to a Wikipedia API, which would help provide more specific details on certain places (addresses, contact information, definitions,  links to websites, etc.). Early on in the ideation process, I also knew I wanted some type of community element integrated into the website, so I created an area where reviews of selected locations would generate, altering responses whenever a different map pin was clicked on. Especially when it came to aesthetic choices, I manually changed the sizing and colors of different elements, as well as created a fixed header, so it was all closer to the initial wireframe I had created (the skeleton copilot made was overall bit smaller and more condensed than I wanted it to be). It was at this point that I started doing more research on the other primary API I was going to use. My older sister used to do a lot of work in GIS (geographic information system) for her job, and I used to watch her work a lot when I was bored in the summers. There was one application that seemed like it would be useful for the purposes of my project, because she was essentially also calculating walk-scores. It was with the use of OpenRouteServices, which created isochrons, detailing parameters of areas that showed how long it would take to travel certain distances. It essentially had a giant database on all things related to road and travel time, which is especially relevant when it comes to walkability. Looking through the APIs they had to offer, they had one that generates isochrones, which I found to be exactly what I needed, especially because the map was the main portion of my website anyways. I asked Copilot to help generate walk scores from 1-100 based on the abundance of third places in a given area (in which the user would choose where), as well as how big the the radius of the isochrone was and how densely it could be packed, and logically, it all made sense when looking at the outputs. 

One thing I’m reflecting on is that I spent a lot of my work process freaking out that my website wasn’t working because the map pin icons would never generate when I’d go to preview my website, so to rectify that and also thinking of the users’ experience, I decided to include a little cue that would indicate that the icons are still loading (or even if they failed to generate). Most of the time, it was just a case of bad wifi paired with a very intensive loading of data, which is also why the map may take longer to generate when the radius is set to be larger. 

Overall this was a really interesting experience, and it was cool to get a glimpse into the world of “vibe-coding”. 
# creative_code_final
